# Tl;dr;

In short, if you trust both auth servers, you have nothing to worry about. I believe it is reasonable to trust both auth servers for the moment.

## Why's that?

As far as I know, PJB did not ban anyone from SS14 itself prior to the auth split nor has she ever been accused of malicious behavior by even her most ardent detractors. If you trusted PJB for the last nine years, I do not see any reason to not trust her now as far as security is concerned.

It is not immediately clear who is responsible for Wizden's new auth infrastructure, or who has access to it. PJB has accused Wizden of exfiltrating SS14's account database *after* she had revoked their access to the server. As best I can tell, events went like this:

- PJB has always been the person who actually pays for SS14's infrastructure, though the funds come out of the SS14 Patreon. Therefore, naturally, PJB has access to these servers - she is the financially responsible party from the perspective of Hetzner, the hosting company.
- In addition to PJB other Wizden staff (unclear who) had authorized access to the *servers* for a long time, but not the account with Hetzner.
- Wizden and PJB were, apparently, in negotiation over PJB retiring from the project.
- PJB had set a deadline: the auth infrastructure would be deleted *at the end of 2026* if no suitable keyholder could be mutually agreed on, for the sake of responsible stewardship over sensitive user data (emails, hashed passwords).
- Wizden, at some point, revoked PJB's access from the auth servers over fear that she would unilaterally delete auth without warning. I have not seen any explanation for why this was an immediate concern.
- PJB restored her own access and removed all the access of all other parties using her Hetzner account to access rescue mode on the servers. Wizden surely knew this was possible, since PJB is the responsible party with Hetzner.
- At this point, some member of Wizden apparently made a copy of the SS14 user database despite their SSH access having been revoked.
- Not knowing how that was done, PJB considered the servers compromised and shut all SS14 infrastructure down, and restored the servers from clean backups.
- Wizden claimed PJB "deleted everything". PJB's explanation posts were deleted from the SS14 subreddit. PJB had already left the Wizden Discord of her own accord, days or weeks before.
- Days later Wizden retracted that claim, but not with an announcement. They have continued to stir up FUD about the 'safety' of the now-PJB only infrastructure, on the basis of PJB supposedly having signed an agreement with Wizden that required her to transfer control of all assets. No evidence of that has been posted anywhere as far as I know.

I do not believe Wizden has acted in good faith, but regardless of whether either side was in the right I do not think either side has any interest in malicious actions towards forks or players. With that being said, the rest of this document will explain SS14 authentication and its security implications. PRs are welcome for cases not considered, or inaccuracies.

## Brief overview of SS14 auth

SS14 uses a [challenge-response authentication scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Challenge%E2%80%93response_authentication).

- User authenticates in launcher with auth server.
- Launcher downloads and runs the content bundle for a Space Station 14 server.
- Content bundle client connects to SS14 server.
- Server sends client its public key and a random 4 byte nonce called `verifyToken`.
- Client sends creates `MsgEncryptionResponse` that contains the same `verifyToken`, alongside a four byte `sharedSecret`, and encrypts both with the server's public key.
- Server decrypts both values using its private key.
- To prevent a [replay attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replay_attack) the server verifies that decrypted `verifyToken` matches token generated by the server earlier.
- The client hashes `sharedSecret + serverPublicKey` and uses the result as the key for this log-in request with the auth server.
- Server computes the same hash, using the result to validate the log-in request with the auth server.
- If the hash exists, auth server invalidates the hash and confirms to the server that the user is authenticated.

When an authentication is successful the auth server will return a payload to the SS14 server that, at time of writing, looks like this:

```json
{
  "isValid": true,
  "userData": {
    "userName": "Person",
    "userId": "fabf46d4-b1f5-968e-9b69-f7f2613ba815",
    "patronTier": null,
    "createdTime": "2026-01-14T06:51:21+00:00"
  },
  "connectionData": {
    "hwids": [
      "ca53a+558cc2/261179ea3edb9322ff40406b802d65="
    ],
    "trust": 0.5
  }
}
```

## Current status quo

At present there are exactly two authentication servers, each with a copy of the same database diverging from around 2026-06-05. Any account registered before that date shares the same UUID on both services, and therefore a successful authentication for a given UUID on either auth server will log into the same account on all current SS14 servers that choose to trust both auth providers.

## Threat: Malicious auth server

At present a malicious auth server would allow its operator to log into any SS14 account on a server that trusts it. On an unmodified SS14 server an account with `AdminFlags.Host` permissions may use the `scsi` command to execute untrusted code on the server. Modified forks may potentially allow other dangerous actions. Other administrator permissions may allow other dangerous actions.

A compromised auth server should be considered equivalent in danger to running untrusted code with the same privileges as the SS14 server process.

## Mitigation: Malicious auth server

You may forbid certain account UUIDs from authentication through a particular auth provider using the `forbidden_uuids` in `config.yaml`. This allows you to forbid untrusted backends from authenticating administrator accounts.

For increased security, you may choose to run your own authentication server instance solely for administrator accounts by restricting those UUIDs from all other auth providers.

## Threat: Account hijacking

Any account that existed prior to the auth split may currently be authenticated by two different providers at time of writing. Even if neither server is malicious, the possibility exists that a user who changes their login information on one service may nonetheless be compromised on the other service. An attacker may thus authenticate against a user who might not be aware their other account has been comrpomised.

## Threat: UUID collision

Some may ask; "What if a new account on one service ends up with the same UUID as an account on another service by chance?"

The odds of a collision are [exceedingly low](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier#Collisions) so long as UUIDs are correctly generated.

# Future work

While I do not currently expect to add more features to this project unless requested, more comprehensive implementations are possible. It would be preferable to have a common multi-auth implementation in RobustToolbox itself.

The most pertinent modification would be UUID mutation. The cardinality of a UUID is massive (2^128 bits), so we can afford to lose a small amount of space. Accounts from a particular authentication server could be made unique by selecting a small identifier for one or more backends which overwrites the first N bits of a UUID. This could effectively disambiguate auth backends.

Example implementation:

```rust
/// Mutate a UUID to include a 2-byte server identifier.
fn mutate_uuid(id: Uuid, server_id: [u8; 2]) -> Result<Uuid, &'static str> {
    let mut bytes = id.into_bytes();

    let front_match = bytes[0] == server_id[0] && bytes[1] == server_id[1];
    let back_match = bytes[14] == server_id[0] && bytes[15] == server_id[1];

    if front_match && back_match {
        // this is a potentially malicious backend
        return Err("collision: auth server provided a natural UUID with another auth server's identifier in both positions");
    }

    if front_match {
        bytes[14] = server_id[0];
        bytes[15] = server_id[1];
    } else {
        bytes[0] = server_id[0];
        bytes[1] = server_id[1];
    }

    Ok(Uuid::from_bytes(bytes))
}
```